they have two ways that they sense
vibrations one is in the whiskers and
these are specially designed hairs
they're called the brassy the roots of
those hairs have lots and lots of very
delicate nerve endings and they can
sense the movement of air do you think
she's sensing that on us so she senses
the vibration and then the other way
that they sense vibrations is in their
the pads of their paws I think that's
one of the things that's attracting her
actually to to the piano this would make
sense music indeed all sound is
vibration we now know that music can
make cats happy
so we're better to stimulate her happy
plans than at the source of the
vibration but there is another vibration
taking place at the piano and this one
is coming from inside Nora
this is really the only time she purrs
when she's at the piano she doesn't like
purr upstairs or laying around or
anything like that but she's always
partying here when she's playing and
sometimes is really really really loud
what she's wearing so loud she's like
whistling now you may be tempted to
think the cats purring because she's
happy
so what well according to animal sound
analyst dr. liz von mugen collar there
is a whole lot more going on with a cats
purr and meets the ear not only when
they're happy they also purr when
they're dying they purr when they're
severely injured and they purr when
they're giving birth so there has to be
a survival mechanism dr. bond Mugen Tala
has spent years studying and recording a
wide variety of cat purrs to explore
this survival mechanism theory and her
results are startling this is a cougar
and even though there are a hundred and
seventy-five pounds they're the same
frequencies the seven pound cat here's a
cougar and here is a domestic house cat
to the human ear
they might sound slightly different but
they're really not under frequency
analysis they're almost identical what's
interesting about the cats purr is that
it's not just generated by the larynx
it's generated by the diaphragm right
here that muscle that helps you breathe
well the diaphragm is a large large
muscle and that vibration goes
throughout their entire body and that
particular vibration that they're
creating is healing their bones their
muscles their ligaments even their lungs
in fact the only incidences of cancer
that are prevalent cats are at their
extremities the very
the tail and the paws the cat is
actually healing themselves every single
time they purr now the key to
understanding this study is not to think
of the pair as a sound but to think of
it as a vibration a very real physical
force that is traveling throughout the
entire body and the evidence to back
this theory up is very persuasive a
really wonderful example is any type of
osteo disease cats simply don't get them
with near the prevalence that dogs do so
Nora playing the piano could be working
on many levels
first the piano is a source of music
which makes cats happy when Nora is
happy she purrs and when she purrs she
is in fact keeping herself fit and
healthy it's all extraordinary stuff